Plaintext (updated) abstract:

Resolution and superposition are common techniques which have seen widespread use with propositional and first-order logic in modern theorem provers. In these cases, resolution proof production is a key feature of such tools; however, the proofs that they produce are not necessarily as concise as possible. For propositional resolution proofs, there are a wide variety of proof compression techniques. There are fewer techniques for compressing first-order resolution proofs generated by automated theorem provers. This paper describes an approach to compressing first-order logic proofs based on lifting proof compression ideas used in propositional logic to first-order logic. One method for propositional proof compression is partial regularization,which removes an inference n when it is redundant in the sense that its pivot literal already occurs as the pivot of another inference in every path from n to the root of the proof. This paper describes the generalization of the partial-regularization algorithm 
RecyclePivotsWithIntersection [10] from propositional logic to first-order logic. The generalized algorithm performs partial regularization of resolution proofs containing resolution and factoring inferences with unification. An empirical evaluation of the generalized algorithm and its combinations with the previously lifted GreedyLinearFirstOrderLowerUnits algorithm [12] is also presented.


Resubmission cover letter:


Dear Editors,

We wish to submit our revised paper to the special issue on "Automated Reasoning" of the AI Communications journal. Our (regular) research paper: “Partial Regularization of First-Order Proofs”, by Jan Gorzny, Ezequiel Postan, and Bruno Woltzenlogel Paleo, has been updated in order to address the comments and remarks provided by the reviewers. The original submission number is Manuscript 17-528.

The uploaded zip file contains a revised version of the paper, as well as a file (“Rebuttal.pdf”) which contains a point-by-point response to the reviewer’s comments.

Sincerely,

Jan Gorzny

