Dear author(s),

On behalf of the Tableaux 2013 program committee, we are
pleased to inform you that your paper entitled

   "Compression of Propositional Resolution Proofs by Lowering Subproofs"

has been accepted for inclusion in the programme and the
conference proceedings. 

We enclose the reviews on your submission and we are confident
that you will take the remarks of the reviewers into account 
in your update of your paper. 

We remind you that the *firm deadline* for the final version
of your paper is fixed on 

    Tuesday 18, June 2013. 

We will send you an independent email including a summary of
the instructions to send your final version.

Thank you again for your contribution to Tableaux 2013 and
We are looking forward to see you at the conference in 
Nancy (France) next September.

Best regards,

Didier Galmiche and Dominique Larchey-Wendling
PC chairs of Tableaux 2013


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 21
TITLE: Compression of Propositional Resolution Proofs by Lowering Subproofs
AUTHORS: Bruno Woltzenlogel Paleo and Joseph Boudou

OVERALL EVALUATION: -1 (weak reject)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 3 (medium)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper extends a compression technique for propositional
resolution refutations from an earlier paper (co-authored by the
second author of this paper).  The presentation is clear and
experimental evidence of the efficacy is nice to see.  Interest in
improving resolution refutations after being generated is an
interesting problem that needs some attention.

However, I rate this paper as a weak reject since it seems both
incremental (a small increment in fact) and out-of-range for Tableaux.
The logical / proof-theoretic significance of the material in this
paper is minor.  It seems that this might have been much better sent
to a workshop or conference that focuses on SAT solving.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 21
TITLE: Compression of Propositional Resolution Proofs by Lowering Subproofs
AUTHORS: Bruno Woltzenlogel Paleo and Joseph Boudou

OVERALL EVALUATION: 1 (weak accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 2 (low)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper presents an improvement on the authors' previous work on
compressing resolution proofs.  In particular, they present a new
algorithm (LowerUnivalents) that improves on an algorithm from [8]
(LowerUnits), and they combine it with another well-known algorithm
(RPI) for even better results.  A theoretical result showing that
LowerUnivalents always produces a proof with the same number or fewer
nodes than LowerUnits is presented.  Finally, a fairly extensive set
of experiments showing the improvements on a variety of benchmarks are
described.

The paper is well-written overall.  I am not an expert in the area,
and was sometimes confused about the source of some of the results
discussed.  For example, Section 2 presents "some theoretical results
used in the paper".  Are these yours or someone else's?  In either
case, citations are needed.  For example, where does the deletion
algorithm (Algorithm 1) come from?

Minor comment: In Section 6, "algorithms have been experimented on..."
is not correct English.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 21
TITLE: Compression of Propositional Resolution Proofs by Lowering Subproofs
AUTHORS: Bruno Woltzenlogel Paleo and Joseph Boudou

OVERALL EVALUATION: 1 (weak accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 3 (medium)

----------- REVIEW -----------
The authors present a new method for decreasing the size
of a resolution proof by "lowering" subproofs. Lowering
means deferring the use of a particular clause until the
final stage of the proof. A method of lowering unit clauses,
called LowerUnits is recalled from a previous paper, and a
generalization called LowerUnivalents is presented that allows
further reduction of proof size.

A complementary method of proof size reduction called
RecyclePivotsWithItersection (RPI) is recalled from a
previous paper, and then in the experimental section,
many combinations of the presented proof-shrinking
methods are described and compared.


The notation that the authors present for manipulating resolution
proofs is very compact and has some nice intuitive properties.
One such property is that the proof subtraction operator, $\setminus$;
roughly an inverse of the resolution operator, which expressed
in a multiplicative notation using $\odot$. 
Ultimately, the notation of resolution and proof subtraction
contributes to the paper,
and so is an overall plus.

The use of dual of $\ell$" for $\bar{\ell}$ is nonstandard terminology in boolean
logic, as the dual of a constant-free formula
F is F with all instances of $\wedge$ and $\vee$
interchanged. Thus in typical terminology,
the dual of $\ell$ is $\ell$. The standard term
is "complement" to refer to $\bar{\ell}$.


I believe that
the operation of LowerUnivalents is novel within the literature.
The paper is well-written and the experiments are extensive
and well-presented. The paper appears to show some progress towards
a goal that is important not just in theoretical circles,
but also to those working in industry on model checking verification system.
I recommend (weak) acceptance.
